DexMachina: Functional Retargeting for
Bimanual Dexterous Manipulation
Zhao Mandi1 ∗, Yifan Hou1, Dieter Fox2, Yashraj Narang2, Ajay Mandlekar2,†, Shuran Song1,†
1Stanford University
2NVIDIA
†equal advising
∗work partially done at internship
Abstract: We study the problem of functional retargeting: learning dexterous
manipulation policies to track object states from human hand-object demonstra-
tions. We focus on long-horizon, bimanual tasks with articulated objects, which
is challenging due to large action space, spatiotemporal discontinuities, and em-
bodiment gap between human and robot hands. We propose DexMachina, a
novel curriculum-based algorithm: the key idea is to use virtual object controllers
with decaying strength: an object is first driven automatically towards its target
states, such that the policy can gradually learn to take over under motion and
contact guidance. We release a simulation benchmark with a diverse set of tasks
and dexterous hands, and show that DexMachina significantly outperforms base-
line methods. Our algorithm and benchmark enable a functional comparison for
hardware designs, and we present key findings informed by quantitative and quali-
tative results. With the recent surge in dexterous hand development, we hope this
work will provide a useful platform for identifying desirable hardware capabili-
ties and lower the barrier for contributing to future research. Videos and more at
project-dexmachina.github.io
Keywords: Dexterous Manipulation, Reinforcement Learning, Simulation-based
Learning
Functional Retargeting 
One Human Demonstration
Bimanual Dexterous Manipulation Policy
Across Different Hands 
For Different Objects
Figure 1: Functional Retargeting. We study the problem of functional retargeting, where the goal is to retarget
human hand demonstrations into functional dexterous robot policies that manipulate an object to follow the
demonstrated trajectory. Our proposed algorithm, DexMachina, achieves functional retargeting from one human
demonstration to a variety of existing dexterous hand embodiments over a range of articulated objects.
1
Introduction
Dexterous robot hands, with their resemblance to human hands, spark the expectation for achieving
human-level dexterity. Yet the reality presents many hardware and algorithmic challenges that
bottleneck the progress in dexterous manipulation. Prior learning-based methods have seen success in
relatively simple and short-horizon tasks, but are often limited by manual reward-engineering [1, 2] or
costly data-collection [3, 1] due to the embodiment gap between human hands and dexterous hands.
Human hands are hence a natural source for learning guidance. In this work, we formulate learning
from human with an emphasis on task capability. We denote the problem as functional retargeting:
arXiv:2505.24853v1  [cs.RO]  30 May 2025
given a human demonstration, the goal is to learn dexterous hand policies that can manipulate the
object to follow the demonstrated trajectory (see Fig. 1). This is distinguished from kinematic
retargeting [3], which produces human-like motions without ensuring feasibility. The problem is
even more compelling for long-horizon, bimanual demonstrations with articulated objects, which
encompass a significant portion of daily human activities, but pose several key challenges: exploration
is difficult under the high-dimensional action space, the intricate contact sequences demand stable
and precise hand movements; due to the embodiment gap, human hand motion cannot be directly
mapped to feasible robot actions, which limits the scalability of imitation data collection.
To address these challenges, we propose DexMachina1, a novel curriculum-based RL algorithm
for functional retargeting. Precise bimanual coordination is often required to manipulate an object
successfully (e.g. opening a waffle iron mid-air, see Fig. 1), but naive approaches often get stuck in
early failures or suboptimal actions. This motivates us to design a curriculum to allow the policy to
explore in a less fragile setting. Our key idea is to use virtual object controllers—they apply control
forces that drive an object towards its demonstrated trajectory—and auxiliary motion and contact
rewards, which guide the policy to learn task strategies as the virtual controller strength decays. The
policy first learns to mimic the human motion without worrying about failing the task, then learns to
take over manipulation as the virtual controllers fade away.
Despite continuous effort in developing new hands and sensing capabilities [4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], there is a
lack for standardized and accessible evaluation benchmarks. To address this, we build a simulation
benchmark with a diverse set of 6 dexterous hands and 5 articulated objects [10], and provides
a unified testbed where new hands and tasks can be easily added and quickly evaluated. On this
benchmark, we empirically show that DexMachina significantly outperforms baseline methods, and
applies successfully to a wide variety of hands, articulated objects, and long-horizon demonstrations.
With an effective algorithm and evaluation benchmark for functional retargeting, it is now possible to
make functional comparisons across different hardware: informed by the policy learning performance,
we obtain a meaningful measure for both the hands’ functionality and readiness to learn from human
guidance. This comparison is generalizable and accessible: our algorithm requires no hand-specific
adaptations, and our task environments are fast to run and easy to customize. With the recent surge in
the development of robotic hand hardware, we hope this functional comparison will be helpful for
making informed decisions for both acquiring and designing new hands.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• We study Functional Retargeting, where we learn feasible dexterous manipulation policies from
human hand-object demonstrations. We propose DexMachina, a novel algorithm for functional
retargeting based on a curriculum over virtual object controllers and motion and contact guidance.
• We introduce the DexMachina benchmark with 6 curated dexterous hand assets and 5 articulated
objects, for evaluating both different functional retargeting algorithms and robotic hand designs.
• We demonstrate DexMachina achieves state-of-the-art learning performance across a variety of
robotic hands and tasks. Our simulation environments and learning algorithms will be open-sourced
to facilitate future research.
2
Related Work
Reinforcement Learning for Dexterous Manipulation. Reinforcement Learning (RL) has been used
for dexterous manipulation tasks such as in-hand object orientation [1, 11, 12, 13, 14] and single-hand
grasping [2, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19], but achieving more complex, longer-horizon manipulation remains
challenging due to the burden of designing rewards to guide exploration for such tasks. Model-based
methods have been applied to tasks such as ball dribbling [8] and Rubik’s cube turning [9], but
they require careful engineering for each object and task. In our work, we seek to study bimanual
long-horizon tasks where it can be difficult to specify concrete goals or design RL rewards to guide
exploration. This motivates our use of human demonstrations, which both act as a goal specification
1Deus ex machina (“god from the machine"), is when a seemingly unsolvable problem is conveniently solved
by an external force — much like how our algorithm moves an object by itself before the policy gradually learns
to take over, hence the name DexMachina.
2
and provide guidance for how to solve the task. Simulation is a common tool to train dexterous hand
policies [20] due to the high exploration cost of running RL on real hardware [21]. Our simulation
benchmark supports evaluation across several dexterous hands and diverse tasks defined by human
demonstration data, in contrast to existing RL benchmarks [22, 23] for dexterous manipulation.
Imitation Learning for Dexterous Manipulation. Imitation learning (IL) is a compelling alternative
to RL, since the the use of demonstrations can mitigate or eliminate the burden of exploration, but it
can require accurate on-robot action data that is challenging to capture for dexterous hands. Most
existing approaches [3, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28] require setting up a teleoperation system customized
for a particular robot hand embodiment. Human hand data (such as videos) are another source of
data. Prior work has used human hand data for learning rough grasp affordances [29], improved
retargeting [30], or co-training with human hand data and teleoperation data [31, 32], but these
approaches have been limited for short-horizon manipulation (mainly grasping). Instead, our work
assumes access to a single tracked hand-object demonstration per task and uses the demonstration to
guide RL training. Similar approaches have been used for humanoid locomotion [33], simple hand
manipulation [34], and dexterous manipulation on short-horizon tasks [35, 36].
Curriculum Learning. It is common practice in optimization-based motion planning to warmstart an
optimization from relaxed physical constraints, resulting in a better solution at convergence [37, 38,
39]. This idea of learning using a curriculum, which moves from easier to more difficult problems,
has been adopted by RL methods [40, 41]. Some prior work uses this approach to relax physical
constraints, such as allowing force before making contact [42] or relaxing gravity, friction and
constraint-solver parameters [36]. Our approach uses a curriculum over object dynamics, allowing
the agent to gradually learn how to manipulate the object over time (Fig. 2).
3
Functional Retargeting Formulation
We define the functional retargeting problem as follows: given one object η, one human hand-object
demonstration sequence Dη, and a pair of dexterous robot hands ζ, the goal is to learn a robot
policy that can manipulate the object to track the demonstrated object states. More formally, one
human demonstration Dη = {G, H} contains T timesteps of densely tracked object states G and
hand poses H. We focus on articulated objects, hence the object states include both part pose
and revolute joint angle values. At any timestep t, given an achieved object state ˆgt (position,
rotation, and articulation) and the target object state from the demonstration gt = {gP
t , gR
t , gJ
t }, we
denote the distance function as F (computes both rotation, position, and articulation joint error).
The learned policy for (η, ζ) should minimize the accumulated tracking error across all timesteps:
πη,ζ
θ
= argminθ
PT
t=1(F( ˆgt, gt)).
4
Method
Overview. We propose DexMachina, a curriculum-based RL algorithm for functional retargeting. In
§4.1, we begin by introducing the task reward, which encourages object tracking in but is insufficient
for effective policy learning. In §4.2, we extract motion and contact information from demonstrations,
which we use to define residual actions and auxiliary rewards. While these components improve
learning, they still fall short in complex long-horizon tasks. This motivates our curriculum strategy,
presented in §4.3, where we introduce an auto-curriculum based on virtual object controllers to
achieve efficient functional retargeting across different dexterous hands.
4.1
RL Environment and Task Reward
We train reinforcement learning (RL) policy to achieve the functional retargeting task. An RL
environment is constructed by pairing one demonstration Dη and one set of bimanual dexterous robot
hands ζ. At each timestep t, write Gt = {gP
t , gR
t , gJ
t } for the recorded object position, rotation and
joint angles at timestep t, and ˆ
Gt = {ˆgP
t , ˆgR
t , ˆgJ
t } for the object’s achieved states corresponding
to each term. The task reward rtask is the product of three terms measuring accuracy in each state
component, encouraging balanced learning [35]. Formally:
dpos = || ˆgt
T −gT
t ||2; drot = 2 cos−1(|⟨ˆgt
R, gR
t ⟩|); dang = || ˆgt
J −gJ
t ||2
3
Early Training              Mid Training              Late Training
Hand-Object 
Demonstration
RL Reward Terms 
       Auto-Curriculum Learning 
Task 
Reward
Motion 
Reward
Contact 
Reward
Strong VOC
            Weak VOC
No VOC
Figure 2: DexMachina Overview. DexMachina is a curriculum-based RL algorithm for functional retargeting.
We process densely-tracked human hand demonstration to extract reference robot joints and keypoints (pink
spheres) and approximated contact positions on object mesh vertices (green spheres), which we use to define
auxiliary rewards in addition to the task reward. We then introduce an auto-curriculum using virtual object
controllers, which initially moves the object on its own to follow the demonstration, and are then decayed over
the course of RL training as the policy learns to take over manipulation.
rtask = rpos ∗rrot ∗rangle = exp(−βposdpos) exp(−βrotdrot) exp(−βangdang)
where βpos, βrot, and βang are scalar weights that control the desirable error scale for each component.
4.2
Action Formulation and Auxiliary Rewards
Although task reward specifies desired object states, it does not provide useful information for how
to achieve them. To address this, we (1) propose a hybrid action formulation, which constrains the
wrist action space to align more with the human demonstrators; and (2) define auxiliary rewards,
which guide the policy to follow the human’s hand-object interaction strategy. As a preliminary,
we first apply pre-processing on the demonstration data Dη to extract relevant motion and contact
information.
Data Pre-Processing. Given Dη with T timesteps, N object parts, and a dexterous hand ζ with J
actuated joints and K collision links, we first run a kinematics-only retargeting algorithm [3] that
matches dexterous hand poses with human hand motion. Then we obtain:
1. Collision-aware kinematic retargeted joints Q ∈RT ×J and reference keypoints X ∈
RT ×K×3 by replaying the retargeting results in simulation and recording (1) the achieved joint
values and (2) 3D keypoint positions of the dexterous hand links. To eliminate object penetrations,
we replay the retargeted joint values as soft control targets in simulation while keeping the object
fixed — See Appendix A.2 for more details.
2. Approximated hand-object contact. Although kinematic retargeting produces human-like
dexterous hand poses, the motions often fail to manipulate the object. Hence we extract contact
information as additional guidance for object interaction. We use a distance-based approximation
to obtain exactly when and where a specific dexterous hand link should be in contact with a
specific object part (detailed in Appendix A.4). The results are approximated contact positions
C ∈R(T ×N×K×3) and a mask M ∈R(T ×N×K) that indicates whether a pair of object part and
hand link has valid contacts.
Hybrid Action Outputs. Given the retargeted joint results Q, we use the joint values for 6-DoF
wrist joints as base actions, which are added to the policy’s output residual actions. The remaining
finger joints use absolute actions that are normalized by their joint limits (see Appendix A.3 for full
details). This formulation effectively constrains the policy’s action space, and we empirically find it
to significantly improve the learning efficiency.
Motion Imitation Reward. To encourage human-like hand motions, we take the motion reference
keypoints K and retargeted joint values Q, and define (1) motion imitation reward rimi based on
keypoint matching, (2) behavior-cloning reward rbc based on joint angle distances to the reference.
4
Formally:
rimi = 1
K
K
X
i=1
exp(−βimi|| ˆxi −xi||2); rbc = 1
J
J
X
i=1
exp(−βbc||ˆqi −qi||2);
where each ( ˆxi, xi) denotes the achieved and reference positions for the ith keypoint and (ˆqi, qi)
denotes the achieved and retargeted values for the ith joint.
Contact Reward. We read contact positions between each hand link and each object part, and
compute contact reward by matching the policy contacts with the corresponding demonstration
contacts. For each side of the hand, we denote the policy’s and demonstration’s contact positions
and validity masks as C, ˆC ∈RN×K×3, M, ˆ
M ∈RN×K×1, respectively. We compute L2 contact
distance masked by validity masks and use it to define contact reward rcon:
D = ∥C −ˆC∥2 ∈RN×K; set D(i,j) =
(
dmax,
if M (i,j)
demo ̸= M (i,j)
policy
0,
if M (i,j)
demo = M (i,j)
policy = 0
(1)
rcon =
1
2NK (
N
X
i=1
K
X
j=1
exp(−βconD(i,j)
left ) +
N
X
i=1
K
X
j=1
exp(−βconD(i,j)
right ))
(2)
The final RL reward is a weighted sum of the above terms: rt = λtaskrtask+λimirimi+λbcrbc+λconrcon.
See Appendix A.4 for precise weights and additional reward details.
4.3
Auto-Curriculum with Virtual Object Controllers
Algorithm 1 DexMachina Curriculum
Require: Reward thresholds σtask, σimi, σbc, σcon
Require: Reward deques Dtask, Dimi, Dbc, Dcon
Require: Initial gains kp, kv, decay ratios ϕp, ϕv, max
episode length Lmax
1: for each PPO iteration do
2:
for each environment where episode is done do
3:
Get achieved episode length L
4:
Get cumulative rewards Rtask, Rimi, Rbc, Rcon
5:
for each term z ∈{task, imi, bc, con} do
6:
Compute normalized reward: ¯rz =
Rz
Lmax
7:
Append ¯rz to deque Dz
8:
end for
9:
end for
10:
for each reward type z ∈{task, imi, bc, con} do
11:
Compute mean: µz = mean(Dz)
12:
end for
13:
if kp = 0 then
14:
continue // no need to decay
15:
end if
16:
if µz > σz ∀z ∈{task, imi, bc, con} then
17:
// Learning is stable, applying gain decay
18:
kp ←kp · ϕp
19:
if kp ≤0.01 then
20:
kp ←0;
kv ←0
21:
end if
22:
kv ←kv · ϕv
23:
end if
24: end for
Motivation. The above reward terms and action
constraints are sometimes sufficient short and
simple tasks, but struggle on long-horizon clips
with complex contacts. The policy often experi-
ences catastrophic early-stage failures: e.g. after
lifting a box with both hands, it might fail to
anticipate that one hand will need to reposition
mid-air to open the lid while the other hand ad-
justs for single-handed grasping. The policy
would attempt different actions, most of which
would drop the box and terminate the episode.
This motivates us to propose our curriculum ap-
proach, to let the policy explore different strate-
gies in a less fragile setting. Our core idea is
using virtual object controllers: they drive the
object to follow the targets on its own, such that
the policy can learn through the entire sequence
and be discouraged from myopic strategies.
Virtual Object Controllers.
We treat the
demonstration states G as control goals and ap-
ply virtual spring-damper constraints that move
the object along its target trajectory. Initially,
the virtual controllers handle most of the object
movement; over time, the controller’s influence
is gradually reduced, requiring the policy to as-
sume greater control to complete the task. They
controllers are implemented using privileged information in simulation. Each object is equipped with
six virtual 1-DoF joints for its base pose and a 1-DoF joint for articulation, and all joints are actuated
by PD controllers [43]. At every timestep, these controllers apply virtual forces based on the error
5
between the current object state and control targets from the demonstration. The control strength
is parametrized by gain parameters (kp, kv), which are decayed over time to enable a structured
hand-off to the learned policy.
Curriculum scheduling. Algorithm 1 describes our proposed curriculum. At the beginning of
curriculum training, we set high virtual controller gains with critical damping; then we exponentially
decay the gains based on the policy’s learning progress, which is tracked with a history of past
rewards. As a result, the policy initially will consistently achieve high task reward; because it receives
a weighted sum of task and auxiliary rewards, the policy learns actions that improve motion and
contact rewards while avoiding disrupting the object trajectory. Later, as the object controllers
weaken, the policy gradually learns to adjust its motions to maintain high task reward. Because the
auxiliary rewards use a much smaller weight, the policy can deviate from the reference hand motions
learned at the earlier stages in order to prioritize optimizing for high task rewards.
5
Experiments
Experiment Setup.
We use hand-object data from ARCTIC [10] (see §A), which includes 5
articulated objects [44] and 7 demonstrations consisting of diverse motion sequences (picking up and
reorienting objects, opening/closing lids, etc.) We evaluate our algorithm on both short- (used in prior
work [35]) and long-horizon demonstrations. We curate assets for 6 open-source dexterous robot
hand models, with varying sizes and kinematic designs. We use Genesis [45] for physics simulation,
and PPO [46, 47] as the base RL algorithm. The policies share the same structure for state-based
input observation spaces for all hands and tasks, and control both hands at once. See Appendix for
details on RL training (§B.1) and evaluation setup §B.4.
Baseline Methods.
Due to various differences in physics simulation and training configurations, we
re-implement baseline methods in our training framework and make several adaptations to ensure a
fair comparison — see § B.3 for implementation details. We compare against the following methods:
1. Kinematics Only. Directly use kinematic retargeting [3] results as policy controller targets.
2. ObjDex [35]. learns a high-level wrist planner for wrist base actions, and a low-level policy with
task reward and the same hybrid actions as ours. We validate our re-implementation by showing
improved performance on the same demonstrations used in the original results.
3. Task + Auxiliary Rewards without curriculum. To evaluate the effect of our proposed
curriculum, we run RL training with only our proposed motion imitation and contact rewards.
For a fair comparison, all training hyper-parameters are identical with our curriculum setting.
4. ManipTrans [36]. A concurrent work that fine-tunes a motion imitation model with RL using
contact force rewards and a curriculum on error thresholds and physics parameters. Since the
original method is evaluated on rigid objects in a different physics simulator, we re-implement
their proposed curriculum while using our hybrid actions and auxiliary reward terms.
Overview of Experiments.
We present empirical results that (1) evaluate the effectiveness of
DexMachina against baselines and no-curriculum settings (§ 5.1); (2) ablate key components of
our method (§ 5.2); (3) demonstrate DexMachina’s applicability across various dexterous hand
embodiments and utility as an evaluation framework for comparing different hand designs (§5.3).
5.1
DexMachina Main Results
We evaluate DexMachina and baseline methods on four representative dexterous hands (Inspire [48],
Allegro [49], Xhand [50], and Schunk [51]) and seven demonstration clips (see C for visualization).
Averaged success rates for each task are reported in Figure 3. The key takeaways are the following:
DexMachina consistently improves performance on all hands and tasks.
We highlight the
rightmost four columns in Fig. 3, which correspond to long-horizon demonstrations with complex
motion sequences2. Task reward alone falls short on these clips; incorporating auxiliary rewards
2For instance, ‘Waffleiron-300’ requires the policy to pick up the object, open and close the lid, flip it back
and forth, then open and close the lid again, all mid-air (see Appendix §C for a visualization)
6
Figure 3: DexMachina Core Results. We evaluate DexMachina on four representative dexterous hands paired
with seven demonstrations with diverse objects and motion sequences. We compare between direct replay of
kinematic retargeting results (“Kinematic Only"), training with only a task reward (“Task Rew (ObjDex)", i.e., our
re-implementation of ObjDex [35]), training with both task and auxiliary rewards (“Task + Aux Reward"), and
with our proposed auxiliary rewards and curriculum (“Ours"). With rare exceptions, DexMachina demonstrates
clear improvements over baseline methods, especially on long-horizon tasks with more complex motions.
Notebook-300   
                
  Mixer300
Figure 4: DexMachina Hand-Specific Strategies. DexMachina enables the policy to learn task
strategies that adapt to their hardware constraints. We show snapshots of trained policy rollouts for
different hands on the same task: left side shows XHand and Inspire Hand for Notebook-300 task;
right side shows Schunk Hand and Allegro Hand for Mixer-300 task.
(’Task + Aux Rewards’) improves performance on some tasks, but the gains are inconsistent. In
contrast, DexMachina significantly outperforms no-curriculum setting despite using the same rewards.
Task reward and hybrid actions can achieve reasonable performance on short-horizon tasks: our
re-implementation of ObjDex [35] (‘Task Rew (ObjDex)’ in Fig. 3) performs better than their original
reporting on the same demonstrations (left three columns in Fig. 3, detailed in §B.3). The kinematic
retargeting results alone cannot complete the task (‘Kinematics Only’) — our videos qualitatively
show that they visually align well with human hands, but the actions cannot achieve more than slightly
lifting up each object.
DexMachina lets the policy learn task strategies that adapt to hardware constraints.
The
auxiliary rewards do not always align with the best task strategy, but instead act as soft guidance
to serve the curriculum, giving the policy flexibility to explore. Qualitatively, we observe that the
policies may deviate from the motion and contact guidance and learn different strategies: as shown in
Fig. 4: on Notebook-300, the XHand policy follows the human demonstrator to use the left hand to
hold up the object and the right hand to close the cover; however, for the smaller, less-actuated Inspire
Hand, the policy learns to use both hands to stabilize the object and close the cover. On Mixer-300,
the Allegro Hand fingers are long enough to close the lid easily, but the Schunk Hand policy shows
more wrist movements to achieve the same effect.
7
5.2
DexMachina Ablations
Action Ablations. We compare our hybrid action formulation with: (1) absolute actions on all joints
and (2) less-constrained residual actions on wrist joints, in which the wrist joint limits are set to cover
the maximum motion range in the entire demonstration clip. We train in the no-curriculum setting,
use a subset of tasks and hands and average over three seeds for each method. Results are shown
in Fig. 8. While all methods benefit from using auxiliary rewards, using more restrictive bounds on
wrist motion results in the best overall performance.
Curriculum Ablations. In Fig. 3, we compare DexMachina with ManipTrans [36], which uses a
curriculum over error thresholds for motion and object poses plus gravity and friction parameters.
We observe that it achieves no clear improvements over the no-curriculum setting, and training is less
stable: given the same budget of RL iterations, the ManipTrans policy initially achieves high task
reward, but performance drops as the curriculum progresses and cannot recover. This indicates that
merely decaying physics parameters is not sufficient for long-horizon tasks with articulated objects,
which needs a stronger guidance to completely solve the task until the policy gradually takes over.
5.3
Hand Embodiment Analysis
After validating that DexMachina achieves functional retargeting across various tasks and hands, we
now use our algorithm and benchmark for a functional comparison between different dexterous hands.
We focus on the four long-horizon tasks from §5.1, and evaluate DexMachina on two additional
hands, Ability [52] and DexRobot Hand (see Fig. 5). We discuss the following key findings:
Larger, fully-actuated hands achieve both higher final performance and better learning effi-
ciency. The Allegro Hand, despite being less anthropomorphic in appearance, is surprisingly capable
due to its long finger length providing stability for in-hand / in-air manipulations. Similarity in size
is less important than degrees of freedom. For instance, the Inspire, Ability, and Schunk Hand all
have similar sizes, but Schunk has actuated fingertips and a foldable palm, and achieves on average
better performance than Inspire and Ability. Although less-actuated hands are more similar to
human hands in appearance, learned strategies are less human-like than the bigger but more
capable hands. Because all hands use the same set of human hand motion references (both as base
wrist actions and motion rewards), the extent to which a policy deviates from human guidance is
determined by their size and kinematic constraints. As a result, hands like Inspire and Ability often
need different strategies to complete the task.
Figure 5: Full evaluation of all six hands using
DexMachina on long-horizon tasks.
Naturally, our conclusions are limited by the objects
and tasks that we test on: for instance, the larger
hands will not perform well for smaller objects (e.g.,
tweezers). However, our evaluation framework can
be easily extended to add new dexterous hands and
test tasks or objects.
6
Conclusion
We present DexMachina, a curriculum-based RL al-
gorithm for functional retargeting, where the key idea
is to use virtual object controllers that let the policy
easily explore task strategies under motion and contact guidance. In our simulation benchmark with a
diverse set of tasks and dexterous hands, we show DexMachina significantly outperforms baseline
methods and enables functional comparison across different dexterous hand designs. We hope
our algorithm and benchmark environments will provide useful platform for identifying desirable
dexterous hand capabilities and lower the barrier for contributing to future research.
8
7
Limitations
DexMachina has a few key limitations. First, our policy uses state-based input that relies on privileged
information from the physics simulator; this information can be challenging to acquire in the real
world. This limitation can be addressed with either vision-based RL policy training [2], or more
practically, a distillation setup that trains visuomotor policies using demonstration data generated
from state-based policies, as seen in prior work [35]. Second, our problem formulation assumes
access to high-quality human hand-object demonstration data, which requires object reconstruction
and accurate pose tracking for both human hands and articulated objects. Such data can be expensive
to collect and requires careful curation (e.g. ARCTIC [10] uses a motion-capture system with dense
manual annotations and post-processing). Future work could investigate alternative methods to
scale up data collection: one direction is leveraging recent progress in 3D generative models and
reconstruction methods. Third, because we use open-source assets for the dexterous hands and
estimate physical properties (such as mass, inertia, and collision shapes), the simulated hands might
fail to capture some of the dynamics and capabilities of the real hardware. To address this, more
careful tuning with real reference hardware will be needed; ideally, accurate simulation models would
be provided directly by manufacturers. Lastly, our learned RL policies have not yet been evaluated in
real-world settings on the examined range of dexterous hands due to lack of hardware access. With
inputs from the community, we aim for our simulation benchmark to enable accessible research and
evaluation of hand designs without requiring physical hardware; furthermore, our learned policy can
be used as teacher policies to be distilled for sim-to-real transfer, which prior work in similar settings
has demonstrated [35, 36].
Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by NVIDIA, and by NSF Awards #2143601, #2037101, and
#2132519. The views and conclusions contained herein are those of the authors and should not
be interpreted as necessarily representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of the
sponsors. The authors would like to thank current and former colleagues at NVIDIA: Kelly Guo,
Milad Raksha, David Hoeller, Bingjie Tang for their help with physics simulation environments and
insightful discussions during algorithm development; and all the members of REALab at Stanford
University for providing useful feedback on initial drafts of the paper manuscript.
References
[1] O. M. Andrychowicz, B. Baker, M. Chociej, R. Jozefowicz, B. McGrew, J. Pachocki, A. Petron,
M. Plappert, G. Powell, A. Ray, et al. Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation. The Interna-
tional Journal of Robotics Research, 39(1):3–20, 2020. 1, 2
[2] T. G. W. Lum, M. Matak, V. Makoviychuk, A. Handa, A. Allshire, T. Hermans, N. D. Ratliff,
and K. V. Wyk. Dextrah-g: Pixels-to-action dexterous arm-hand grasping with geometric fabrics,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.02274. 1, 2, 9
[3] Y. Qin, W. Yang, B. Huang, K. Van Wyk, H. Su, X. Wang, Y.-W. Chao, and D. Fox. Anyteleop:
A general vision-based dexterous robot arm-hand teleoperation system. In Robotics: Science
and Systems, 2023. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6
[4] M. Raki´c. Paper 11: The ‘belgrade hand prosthesis’. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechan-
ical Engineers, Conference Proceedings, 183(10):60–67, 1968. doi:10.1243/PIME_CONF_
1968_183_179_02. URL https://doi.org/10.1243/PIME_CONF_1968_183_179_02. 2
[5] C. Loucks, V. Johnson, P. Boissiere, G. Starr, and J. Steele. Modeling and control of the
stanford/jpl hand. In Proceedings. 1987 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, volume 4, pages 573–578, 1987. doi:10.1109/ROBOT.1987.1088031. 2
9
[6] S. Jacobsen, E. Iversen, D. Knutti, R. Johnson, and K. Biggers. Design of the utah/m.i.t. dextrous
hand. In Proceedings. 1986 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
volume 3, pages 1520–1532, 1986. doi:10.1109/ROBOT.1986.1087395. 2
[7] J. Butterfass, G. Hirzinger, S. Knoch, and H. Liu. Dlr’s multisensory articulated hand. i.
hard- and software architecture. In Proceedings. 1998 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (Cat. No.98CH36146), volume 3, pages 2081–2086 vol.3, 1998.
doi:10.1109/ROBOT.1998.680625. 2
[8] D. Shiokata, A. Namiki, and M. Ishikawa. Robot dribbling using a high-speed multifingered
hand and a high-speed vision system. In 2005 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, pages 2097–2102. IEEE, 2005. 2
[9] R. Higo, Y. Yamakawa, T. Senoo, and M. Ishikawa. Rubik’s cube handling using a high-
speed multi-fingered hand and a high-speed vision system. In 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 6609–6614. IEEE, 2018. 2
[10] Z. Fan, O. Taheri, D. Tzionas, M. Kocabas, M. Kaufmann, M. J. Black, and O. Hilliges.
ARCTIC: A dataset for dexterous bimanual hand-object manipulation. In Proceedings IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2023. 2, 6, 9, 14, 15
[11] A. Handa, A. Allshire, V. Makoviychuk, A. Petrenko, R. Singh, J. Liu, D. Makoviichuk,
K. Van Wyk, A. Zhurkevich, B. Sundaralingam, et al. Dextreme: Transfer of agile in-hand
manipulation from simulation to reality. In 2023 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), pages 5977–5984. IEEE, 2023. 2
[12] H. Qi, A. Kumar, R. Calandra, Y. Ma, and J. Malik. In-hand object rotation via rapid motor
adaptation. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 1722–1732. PMLR, 2023. 2
[13] Z.-H. Yin, B. Huang, Y. Qin, Q. Chen, and X. Wang. Rotating without seeing: Towards in-hand
dexterity through touch. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.10880, 2023. 2
[14] T. Chen, M. Tippur, S. Wu, V. Kumar, E. Adelson, and P. Agrawal. Visual dexterity: In-hand
reorientation of novel and complex object shapes. Science Robotics, 8(84):eadc9244, 2023.
doi:10.1126/scirobotics.adc9244. URL https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/
scirobotics.adc9244. 2
[15] V. Caggiano, S. Dasari, and V. Kumar. Myodex: A generalizable prior for dexterous manipula-
tion. ArXiv, abs/2309.03130, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
260927595. 2
[16] Z. Luo, J. Cao, S. J. Christen, A. Winkler, K. Kitani, and W. Xu. Grasping diverse objects with
simulated humanoids. ArXiv, abs/2407.11385, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:271217823. 2
[17] P. Mandikal and K. Grauman. Dexterous robotic grasping with object-centric visual affordances.
In International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2021. 2
[18] T. Zhu, R. Wu, J. Hang, X. Lin, and Y. Sun. Toward human-like grasp: Functional grasp
by dexterous robotic hand via object-hand semantic representation. IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 45:12521–12534, 2023. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258462924. 2
[19] H. Yuan, B. Zhou, Y. Fu, and Z. Lu. Cross-embodiment dexterous grasping with reinforce-
ment learning. ArXiv, abs/2410.02479, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/
CorpusID:273098035. 2
[20] A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, A. Gupta, G. Vezzani, J. Schulman, E. Todorov, and S. Levine.
Learning complex dexterous manipulation with deep reinforcement learning and demonstrations,
2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10087. 3
10
[21] K. Xu, Z. Hu, R. Doshi, A. Rovinsky, V. Kumar, A. Gupta, and S. Levine. Dexterous ma-
nipulation from images: Autonomous real-world rl via substep guidance. 2023 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 5938–5945, 2022. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:254877506. 3
[22] C. Bao, H. Xu, Y. Qin, and X. Wang. Dexart: Benchmarking generalizable dexterous manipula-
tion with articulated objects. In 2023 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), pages 21190–21200, 2023. doi:10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.02030. 3
[23] S. R. Company.
Shadow hand official website.
https://www.shadowrobot.com/
dexterous-hand-series/, 2025. Accessed: 2025-03-17. 3
[24] C. Wang, H. Shi, W. Wang, R. Zhang, L. Fei-Fei, and C. K. Liu. Dexcap: Scalable and portable
mocap data collection system for dexterous manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.07788,
2024. 3
[25] S. Yang, M. Liu, Y. Qin, D. Runyu, L. Jialong, X. Cheng, R. Yang, S. Yi, and X. Wang. Ace:
A cross-platfrom visual-exoskeletons for low-cost dexterous teleoperation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:240, 2024. 3
[26] X. Cheng, J. Li, S. Yang, G. Yang, and X. Wang. Open-television: Teleoperation with immersive
active visual feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01512, 2024. 3, 14
[27] K. Shaw, Y. Li, J. Yang, M. K. Srirama, R. Liu, H. Xiong, R. Mendonca, and D. Pathak.
Bimanual dexterity for complex tasks. In 8th Annual Conference on Robot Learning, 2024. 3
[28] H. Zhang, S. Hu, Z. Yuan, and H. Xu. Doglove: Dexterous manipulation with a low-cost
open-source haptic force feedback glove. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07730, 2025. 3
[29] P. Mandikal and K. Grauman. Learning dexterous grasping with object-centric visual affor-
dances. 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
6169–6176, 2020. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:233439776. 3
[30] S. Park, S. Lee, M. Choi, J. Lee, J. Kim, J. Kim, and H. Joo. Learning to transfer human hand
skills for robot manipulations, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.04169. 3
[31] K. Shaw, S. Bahl, and D. Pathak. Videodex: Learning dexterity from internet videos, 2022.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.04498. 3
[32] M. Xu, Z. Xu, C. Chi, M. Veloso, and S. Song. Xskill: Cross embodiment skill discovery. In
Conference on robot learning, pages 3536–3555. PMLR, 2023. 3
[33] X. B. Peng, P. Abbeel, S. Levine, and M. van de Panne. Deepmimic: Example-guided deep
reinforcement learning of physics-based character skills. ACM Trans. Graph., 37(4):143:1–
143:14, July 2018. ISSN 0730-0301. doi:10.1145/3197517.3201311. URL http://doi.acm.
org/10.1145/3197517.3201311. 3
[34] Y. Wang, J. Lin, A. Zeng, Z. Luo, J. Zhang, and L. Zhang. Physhoi: Physics-based imitation of
dynamic human-object interaction, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04393. 3
[35] Y. Chen, C. Wang, Y. Yang, and C. K. Liu. Object-centric dexterous manipulation from human
motion data. ArXiv, abs/2411.04005, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/
CorpusID:273850263. 3, 6, 7, 9, 16, 17
[36] K. Li, P. Li, T. Liu, Y. Li, and S. Huang. Maniptrans: Efficient dexterous bimanual manipulation
transfer via residual learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21860, 2025. 3, 6, 8, 9, 16, 17
[37] I. Mordatch, E. Todorov, and Z. Popovi´c. Discovery of complex behaviors through contact-
invariant optimization. ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG), 31(4):1–8, 2012. 3
11
[38] T. Pang and R. Tedrake. A convex quasistatic time-stepping scheme for rigid multibody systems
with contact and friction. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), pages 6614–6620. IEEE, 2021. 3
[39] T. Pang, H. T. Suh, L. Yang, and R. Tedrake. Global planning for contact-rich manipulation
via local smoothing of quasi-dynamic contact models. IEEE Transactions on robotics, 39(6):
4691–4711, 2023. 3
[40] A. S. Chiappa, P. Tano, N. Patel, A. Ingster, A. Pouget, and A. Mathis. Acquiring mus-
culoskeletal skills with curriculum-based reinforcement learning.
bioRxiv, 2024.
doi:
10.1101/2024.01.24.577123.
URL https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/
01/25/2024.01.24.577123. 3
[41] H. Zhang, S. Christen, Z. Fan, L. Zheng, J. Hwangbo, J. Song, and O. Hilliges. ArtiGrasp:
Physically plausible synthesis of bi-manual dexterous grasping and articulation. In International
Conference on 3D Vision (3DV), 2024. 3
[42] X. Mao, Y. Xu, Z. Sun, E. Miller, D. Layeghi, and M. Mistry. Learning long-horizon robot
manipulation skills via privileged action. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.15442, 2025. 3
[43] G. F. Franklin, J. D. Powell, A. Emami-Naeini, and J. D. Powell. Feedback control of dynamic
systems, volume 4. Prentice hall Upper Saddle River, 2002. 5
[44] X. Xu, D. Bauer, and S. Song. Robopanoptes: The all-seeing robot with whole-body dexterity.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.05420, 2025. 6
[45] G. Authors. Genesis: A universal and generative physics engine for robotics and beyond,
December 2024. URL https://github.com/Genesis-Embodied-AI/Genesis. 6, 16
[46] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov. Proximal policy optimization
algorithms, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347. 6
[47] D. Makoviichuk and V. Makoviychuk. rl-games: A high-performance framework for reinforce-
ment learning. https://github.com/Denys88/rl_games, May 2021. 6, 16
[48] L. Beijing Inspire-Robots Technology Co.
Inspire hand official website.
https://
inspire-robots.store/collections/the-dexterous-hands, 2025. Accessed: 2025-
03-17. 6
[49] W. Robotics. Allegro hand official website. https://www.allegrohand.com/, 2025. Ac-
cessed: 2025-03-17. 6
[50] ROBOTERA. Xhand1 official website. https://www.robotera.com/en/goods1/4.html,
2025. Accessed: 2025-03-17. 6
[51] S. S. . C. KG.
Schunk 5-finger hand official website.
https://schunk.com/us/en/
gripping-systems/special-gripper/svh/c/PGR_3161, 2025. Accessed: 2025-03-17.
6
[52] PSYONIC. Ability hand official website. https://www.psyonic.io/ability-hand, 2025.
Accessed: 2025-04-30. 8
[53] J. Romero, D. Tzionas, and M. J. Black. Embodied hands: Modeling and capturing hands and
bodies together. ACM Transactions on Graphics, (Proc. SIGGRAPH Asia), 36(6), Nov. 2017.
14
[54] V. Makoviychuk, L. Wawrzyniak, Y. Guo, M. Lu, K. Storey, M. Macklin, D. Hoeller, N. Rudin,
A. Allshire, A. Handa, and G. State. Isaac gym: High performance gpu-based physics simulation
for robot learning, 2021. 16
12
[55] B. Wen, W. Yang, J. Kautz, and S. Birchfield. Foundationpose: Unified 6d pose estimation and
tracking of novel objects. In CVPR, 2024. 17
[56] Y. Xiang, T. Schmidt, V. Narayanan, and D. Fox. Posecnn: A convolutional neural network for
6d object pose estimation in cluttered scenes, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.
00199. 17
[57] S. Hinterstoisser, V. Lepetit, S. Ilic, S. Holzer, G. Bradski, K. Konolige, and N. Navab. Model
based training, detection and pose estimation of texture-less 3d objects in heavily cluttered
scenes. In Computer Vision, ACCV 2012 - 11th Asian Conference on Computer Vision, Revised
Selected Papers, number PART 1 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries
Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), pages 548–562,
2013. ISBN 9783642373305. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-37331-2_42. 11th Asian Conference on
Computer Vision, ACCV 2012 ; Conference date: 05-11-2012 Through 09-11-2012. 17
13
Please see our submission website: dexmachina-submission.github.io
A
Demonstration Data Processing Details
A.1
ARCTIC Demonstration Selection and Curation
We use a subset of hand-object interaction clips from the ARCTIC dataset [10], which contains
articulated object scans and interaction sequences with tracked MANO [53] hand poses and object
states. Each selected clip is defined by an object (e.g. ‘box’), a subject tag (e.g. ‘s01-u01’) identifying
the human demonstrator, and a (start, end) tuple to trim the sequence to a fixed length, hence the
number of used frames T is defined as T = (end −start)
Dexterous Hand Asset Processing.
All of the dexterous hands in our experiments are curated from
open-source URDF models and manually edited to add 6-DoF wrist joints that achieve a ‘floating
hand’ style wrist actuation. Some of the dexterous hand models require additional processing for
stable simulation, such as manually changing mass or inertia values, running convex-decomposition
to improve collision mesh quality, and adding dummy links to fingertips to record and track keypoint
positions. For each dexterous hand, we manually specify which finger links should match with
which MANO [53] hand joints(e.g. thumb to human thumb), which is required by the kinematic
retargeting [26] algorithm. The kinematic retargeting results are also used for controller gain tuning,
which ensures the dexterous hand controllers are stable and fast enough to match the desired human
hand movement and speed within reasonable error.
A.2
Object-aware Retargeting Post-processing
Figure 6: We perform an improved retargeting
scheme over pure kinematic retargeting
Because we use densely-tracked human hand
and object interaction as demonstration, a purely
kinematic retargeting algorithm [26] on fingertip
positions results in frequent penetration with the
object, which leads to damaging base-actions
during policy learning, and infeasible keypoint
positions which we use for imitation reward
computation. To address this, we run the simu-
lation for each pair of dexterous hands, and for
each demonstrated timestep, we fixate the ob-
ject to its target state (both root pose and object
joint angle), and set retargeted joint values as
control targets. This process lets the simulation
to resolve collision and
Then we record the achieved joint values and keypoints to use for policy learning. In implementation,
this process can be easily parallelized in simulation, which we illustrate in Figure 6.
A.3
Hybrid Action Outputs.
Formally, we use the following notations:
• clip(x, a, b): elementwise clamp of input value x between a and b
• at ∈RJ: the policy’s joint action output at time t clipped to [−1, 1], i.e. at = clip(πθ(ot), −1, 1)
• q(i)
t : the target position for the i-th joint at time t
• If ⊂{1, . . . , J}: indices corresponding to the finger DOFs
• IT
w ⊂{1, . . . , J}: indices of the three wrist translation DOFs, |IT
w| = 3
• IR
w ⊂{1, . . . , J}: indices of the three wrist rotation DOFs, |IR
w| = 3
14
Figure 7: Visualization of the long-horizon tasks achieved by our trained RL policy. The brown box is used as
platform surface, which follows the original ARCTIC data collection setup where objects are placed on a square
cardboard box on a table surface [10].
• qt ∈RJ: the retargeted joint values at time t
• sT, sR: scaling factors for translation and rotation actions respectively
• ℓ, u ∈RJ: vectors of lower and upper joint limits
• ˆqt ∈RJ: the joint target values sent to the policy’s controller
Then, the joint target computation is defined as:
awrist-T
t
= at[IT
w] ∈R3,
qwrist-T
t
= qt[IT
w] + sT · awrist-T
t
awrist-R
t
= at[IR
w] ∈R3,
qwrist-R
t
= qt[IR
w] + sR · awrist-R
t
afingers
t
= at[If],
qfingers
t
= ℓIf + u[If] −ℓ[If]
2
· (afingers
t
+ 1)
ˆqt = concat(qwrist-T
t
, qwrist-R
t
, qfingers
t
)
A.4
Contact Approximation
Let: Vo = {vo
i }No
i=1 be the vertices of one object part mesh, Vh = {vh
j }Nh
j=1 be the vertices of one
MANO hand mesh, γ be the contact distance threshold, Nc be the maximum number of raw contact
approximations (we use γ = 0.01, Nc = 50), and K be the number of collision links on a dexterous
robot hand.
First, we do contact approximation by finding object mesh vertices that, their L2 distance to the
nearest neighbor on the MANO mesh is within γ: for each vo
i , we get v∗
j = arg minj ∥vo
i −vh
j ∥2, and
mark vo
i as an approximate contact point if ∥vo
i −vh
j∗∥2 < γ. When there’s more than Nc vertices
within this threshold, we use farthest sub-sampling to get the final set of Nc contacts, denoted as
C = {vc
k}Nc
k=1 ⊂Vo.
Next, we “retarget" the raw approximate contacts to the dexterous robot hand: let L = {ℓm}K
m=1 be
the center positions of the dexterous hand links, for each contact point vc
k ∈C, assign it to the nearest
link: m∗= arg minm ∥vc
k −ℓm∥2 For each link ℓm, compute the average position of the assigned
contacts: ¯vm =
1
|Cm|
P
vc
k∈Cm vc
k where Cm ⊂C is the subset of contacts assigned to link ℓm. If
|Cm| = 0, then ¯vm is marked as invalid.
The final outputs are:
• A contact tensor C ∈RT ×N×K×3
• A validity mask M ∈{0, 1}T ×N×K
where T is the number of time-steps in the demonstration clip, N is the number of object parts
(N = 2 for all our articulated object assets). The exact same procedure is repeated for each dexterous
hand, hence each bi-manual RL task environment has two copies of contact information with the
same shapes.
15
B
Experiment Details
B.1
RL Training and Evaluation Details
We use Genesis for physics simulation [45] and PPO as the base RL algorithm implemented by
the rl-games [47] package. In the reported results for both ours and baseline methods, we use
12, 000 parallel environments for RL training on all the dexterous hands, except for Dex Hand which
uses 10, 000 environments due to memory constraints. Each training run occupies either one single
NVIDIA L40s or H100 GPU, and we run 5 random seeds for each demonstration and each pair of
dexterous hands for all compared methods, except for action ablation experiments in §5.2 which use
3 random seeds.
B.2
RL Policy Observation and Action Space
We use state-based input for policy observation space: this include object states, joint targets,
finger-to-object distances, and normalized hand-object contact forces.
B.3
Details on Baseline Reimplementation
Our most relevant baseline methods [35, 36] are built with Isaac-Gym [54] with various simulation-
specific implementation details. To ensure a fair comparison, we have dedicated effort to ensure
a faithful reimplementation using our training framework and RL environments. Some of our
modifications can result in better performance for the baselines than their original reports: for
example, Genesis [45] uses a more stable simulation contact modeling and is more memory efficient,
which enables training up to 12, 000 parallel environments with much higher learning efficiency than
the Isaac Gym environments used by baselines (i.e. 2048 for ObjDex [35] and 4096 environments for
ManipTrans [36]). We describe further details our reimplementation for each baseline below:
ObjDex [35] Reimplementation Details.
To ensure a fair comparison, we have contacted the
original authors to obtain their setup details that were not available publicly, including: 1. A good
estimate for the exact frame start- and end- parameters for the ARCTIC clips used for training; 2. A
frame interpolation multiplier that effectively extends the episode length for RL training to be longer
than the original demonstration (e.g. an ARCTIC clip with T timesteps requires training RL on 4T or
7T episode steps). We reuse their clip range but choose not to use the interpolation after empirically
finding it to increase training time without improving task performance.
Moreover, the original ObjDex [35] method uses a two-level framework, where a high-level wrist
planner is first learned across all ARCTIC demonstration clips, and a low-level RL policy outputs
wrist residual actions. We instead directly use the kinematic retargeting results for the wrist base
actions. The high-level wrist planner design assumes access to a bigger dataset and makes the
low-level RL policy sensitive to the learned planner outputs — we hypothesize this is the main
reason for why our reimplementation can achieve better performance than the original results
(e.g. On Ketchup-100, our re-implementation achieves > 90% success rate for all hands, whereas the
original paper reports 41.2%; on Mixer-170, ours achieves > 70% success rate for three out of four
hands, whereas the paper reports 57.6%).
ManipTrans [36] Reimplementation Details.
Because the original method did not directly evalu-
ate on ARCTIC demonstrations (albeit the paper’s appendix Section A.1 [36] reported qualitative
results for some ARCTIC objects), we reimplement their proposed curriculum while keeping every-
thing else aligned with our best-performing setup (this includes hybrid action formulation, training
with both task and auxiliary rewards and the same RL hyper-parameters, etc.). We follow the original
method [36] to decay four parameters during training, namely the thresholds for object pose errors
and hand keypoint error, the z-axis gravity value, and the friction parameter, which we write as
ϵP
object, ϵR
object, ϵfinger, ggravity, µ, respectively. We modified Genesis [45]’s rigid solver to support modi-
fying the gravity vector during RL training. ManipTrans [36] does not disclose the exact decaying
16
schedule for these parameters or the range for gravity and friction parameters, hence we choose
the same exponential scheduler to stay consistent with our virtual object controller curriculum, and
choose a range of ggravity ∈[0, −9.81], µ ∈[4.0, 1.0]. More specifically, given a max iteration I,
desired range of parameters, and a decay interval v, the parameter is decayed every v iterations; after
the parameters reach their final values, training proceeds for another fixed number of iterations (this
is also aligned with our method). The exponential schedule depends on the given max iterations I,
for each parameter ω ∈{ϵR
object, ϵfinger, ggravity, µ}: its value at a given training iteration can be written
as ωcurrent = ωinit ·

ωfinal
ωinit
t/I
. Note that we use a pseudo value ¯ggravity ∈[9.81, 0] because the decay
computation assumes positive bounds, and the actual applied gravity is ggravity = 9.81 −¯ggravity.
B.4
Policy Evaluation Setup
Evaluation Across Random Seeds.
For each method and task, we run 5 random seeds; each seed
run saves a best policy checkpoint based on cumulative task reward, and each checkpoint is evaluated
for 20 episodes. For each evaluation episode, we record the achieved object states (both pose and
revolute joint angle) and compare against the demonstration trajectory.
Performance Metrics.
Our functional retargeting task requires a manipulation policy to achieve
articulated object tracking, which involves balancing both pose and joint angle errors over long time
sequences. For performance reporting, prior work has explored per-step success rate [35] or tracking
error [36], but both have clear shortcomings: success rate reporting is based on how many timesteps
out of the entire demonstration a policy can move the object to track within given error thresholds,
hence the results are highly sensitive to the threshold values (this case requires 3 different thresholds
for position, rotation, and joint angle errors), which also depend on the object size and geometries.
Reporting tracking errors can be accurate, but it shows three different errors for every task, hence
making it difficult to derive high-level comparisons and takeaways from experiment results. To
address these limitations, we propose to follow prior work in object pose tracking [55, 56, 57] and
use a similar ADD-AUC3 metric with the key difference that we compute ADD for each object part
separately (to accommodate articulated objects) and average ADD results before computing AUC.
We found this to be a less-sensitive metric that still reports one success rate value for each method
while reflective of the qualitative results from policy roll-outs.
C
Additional Experiment Results
We visualize keyframes of our long-horizon manipulation tasks in Fig. . Please see supplementary
videos for additional qualitative results for policy roll-outs. The figure in the next page shows results
for our action ablation experiments described in §5.2.
3ADD stands for Average Distance, AUC stands for Area Under Curve, we don’t use ADD-S because we
have the exact matching targets from the demonstration
17
Figure 8: Hand Action Ablation. We ablate on action output formulations on a subset of dexterous
hands and objects and trained without curriculum. Hybrid actions with more restrictive bounds (light
and dark green bars) shows better learning performance than absolute actions and full residual actions
with less wrist constraints, both in training with task rewards or with both task plus auxiliary rewards
settings
18
